Add docs for builders (#29)
paketo-buildpacks/paketo-website: content/docs/builders.md

---
title: "Builders"
weight: 101
menu: "main"
---

# Builders
In the Getting Started tutorial, you used the `pack` CLI and the Paketo base `builder` to create a runnable image with your application. This section explains what Paketo `builders` are, and how they fit into the Paketo ecosystem.

> ## What is a Paketo builder?

Reviewer: This section should be generic to CNB. So something like "What is a Builder" and the explanations underneath updated to remove "paketo"

> ## What is a Paketo builder?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What is a Builder?
```

A Paketo `builder` is an image that contains three components:
* a set of Paketo `buildpacks`, which provide your app's dependencies,
* a Paketo `stack`, which provides the OS layer for your app image, and
* the [CNB lifecycle](https://buildpacks.io/docs/concepts/components/lifecycle/), which puts everything together to produce your final app image

> For more information about `builders`, visit the [buildpacks.io docs](https://buildpacks.io/docs/concepts/components/builder/). More information about `stacks` and the `CNB lifecycle` can be found there as well.

Reviewer: This reads a little weird. I think it can be as simple as:
"For more information about builders, see [buildpacks.io](https://buildpacks.io/docs/concepts/components/builder/)" and leave out the next sentence (the stacks page will cover this)

> For more information about `builders`, visit the [buildpacks.io docs](https://buildpacks.io/docs/concepts/components/builder/). More information about `stacks` and the `CNB lifecycle` can be found there as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about `builders`, see [buildpacks.io docs](https://buildpacks.io/docs/concepts/components/builder/). 
```

#
## What Paketo builders are available?

> The Paketo project releases several builder images to choose from depending on your application needs. The available options are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Paketo project releases several builder images to choose from depending on your application needs. These are:
```

#### Tiny

> Builder based off of a Distroless `ubuntu:bionic` stack. Consists of buildpacks to build most **Go** and **Java** [GraalVM Native Image](https://www.graalvm.org/docs/reference-manual/native-image/) apps. It lives in [GCR](gcr.io/paketo-buildpacks/builder:tiny). To build your app with it, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Builder based off of a Distroless `ubuntu:bionic` stack. Consists of buildpacks to build most **Go** and **Java** [GraalVM Native Image](https://www.graalvm.org/docs/reference-manual/native-image/) apps. To build your app with it locally using `pack`, run:
```

```
$ pack build <image-name> --path <path/to/source> --builder gcr.io/paketo-buildpacks/builder:tiny
```

#### Base

> Builder based off of the `ubuntu:bionic` stack. Consists of buildpacks to build most **Java, Node.js, Go, .NET Core, Ruby,** and **NGINX** apps _**without**_ common C libraries. It lives in [GCR](gcr.io/paketo-buildpacks/builder:base). To build your app with it, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Builder based off of the `ubuntu:bionic` stack. Consists of buildpacks to build most **Java, Node.js, Go, .NET Core, Ruby,** and **NGINX** apps _**without**_ common C libraries. To build your app with it locally using `pack`, run:
```

```

> $ pack build <image-name> --path <path/to/source> --builder gcr.io/paketo-buildpacks/builder:base

Reviewer: Would be great if this could be something that users can just copy/paste. So, suggest setting an image name and get rid of the --path flag

```
#### Full

> Builder based off of the `ubuntu:bionic` stack. Consists of buildpacks to build most **PHP, Java, Node.js, Go, .NET Core, Ruby,** and **NGINX** apps _**with**_ common C libraries. It lives in [GCR](gcr.io/paketo-buildpacks/builder:full). To build your app with it, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Builder based off of the `ubuntu:bionic` stack. Consists of buildpacks to build most **PHP, Java, Node.js, Go, .NET Core, Ruby,** and **NGINX** apps _**with**_ common C libraries. To build your app with it locally using `pack`, run:
```

```
$ pack build <image-name> --path <path/to/source> --builder gcr.io/paketo-buildpacks/builder:full
```
#

> #### The Github repo for Paketo builders is [here](https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/builder).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Github Repo](https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/builder)
```
